Clarify how per-message attributes should be recorded for batch operations and minor cleanups (#1168)
open-telemetry/semantic-conventions: docs/messaging/messaging-spans.md

<!-- END AUTOGENERATED TEXT -->
<!-- endsemconv -->

### Recording per-message attributes on batch operations

All messaging operations (`publish`, `receive`, `process`, or others not covered by this specification) can describe both single and/or batch of messages.
Attributes in the `messaging.message` or `messaging.{system}.message` namespace apply to individual messages and typically vary between messages within the same batch.

> Some messaging systems such as Kafka or Azure Event Grid allow publishing a batch of messages to different topics in a single operation resulting in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some messaging systems such as Kafka or Azure Event Grid allow publishing a batch of messages to different topics in a single operation, resulting in
```

<!-- END AUTOGENERATED TEXT -->
<!-- endsemconv -->

### Per-message attributes on batch operations

All messaging operations (`publish`, `receive`, `process`, or others not covered by this specification) can describe both single and/or batch of messages.
Attributes in the `messaging.message` or `messaging.{system}.message` namespace describe individual messages.

For single-message operations they SHOULD be set on corresponding span.

> For batch operations, if the attribute value is the same for all messages in the batch, the instrumentation SHOULD set such attribute on the corresponding span.

Reviewer 2: (as opposed to the span representing the individual message?)

```suggestion
For batch operations, if the attribute value is the same for all messages in the batch, the instrumentation SHOULD set such attribute on the span representing the batch operation.
```

For batch operations, per-message attributes are usually different and cannot be set on the corresponding span. In such cases the attributes SHOULD be set on links. See [Batch receiving](#batch-receiving) for more information on correlation using links.

Some messaging systems (e.g., Kafka, Azure EventGrid) allow publishing a single batch of messages to different topics. In such cases, the attributes in `messaging.destination` MAY be
Some messaging systems (e.g., Kafka, Azure Event Grid) allow publishing a single batch of messages to different topics. In such cases, the attributes in `messaging.destination` MAY be
set on links. Instrumentations MAY set destination attributes on the span if all messages in the batch share the same destination.

### Attributes specific to certain messaging systems

All attributes that are specific for a messaging system SHOULD be populated in `messaging.{system}` namespace. Attributes that describe a message, a destination, a consumer, or a batch of messages SHOULD be populated under the corresponding namespace:

* `messaging.{system}.message.*`: Describes attributes for individual messages

> * `messaging.{system}.destination.*`: Describes the destination a message (or a batch) are published to and received from respectively. The combination of attributes in these namespaces should uniquely identify the entity and include properties significant for this messaging system. For example, Kafka instrumentations should include partition identifier.

Author: I don't think this comment still applies - we should have everything uniquely identifying entity in the general `messaging.destination` namespace.

We also have a note on the `messaging.destination.name` which says "Destination name SHOULD uniquely identify a specific queue, topic or other entity within the broker."
